Hi.
We didn't his lecture.
Where are going to learn how to get images from the user's photo library.
So far you're done with the user interface.
Now we have to find out that way in order to get those images out of a user's library.
Why we have to store an image and the name and an artist and a year into the car data so that we can
learn how to Sir information into car data and how to retrieve information from car data as well.
First we need to store information and in order to do that we need an image because we can easily write
these texts inside of text feels right now.
But we need to learn about this photo library thing in order to have an image to save on the car data.
Once we learn how to write into database then we can practice reading data from the database as well
right.
So the next step would be to learn how to reach the photo library on how to get images out of that one.
And this is what you're going to use in most of the apps that you're going to build from now on.
So we're going to practice this a lot.
Was he learned this decodes detainees will be different from previous information that we have learned.
But you get to practice it much more so first of all we are going to need and gesture recognize awry
because the user will have to click on this image to save and Imogene side of the UI Image view.
Of course we can do that with a button but it won't be very practical.
So I'm going to use an image like this and I'm going to include this link in my repository and I'm going
to include this link in the resources of this lecture so that you can download it and use it if you
want but also I'm going to show you how to create one without any design program.
So I'm going to use a design program called Catch but if you have anything like Photoshop paint it doesn't
matter you can just create a simple image from here.
Later on we're going to have a design section and I'm going to show you the details of this but right
now I'm just going to add a new Rectangle in here and write some text onto it.
So for right now I'm just going to dismiss this borders and I'm going to change the color to something
blue.
Okay.
And I believe that scoots inside of that image I'm going to have a text which say select image.
So this is far too big for me.
I'm going to decrease this formed a little bit like this and then I'm going to say select image.
OK.
And again if you don't have any design program at this moment it doesn't matter you can just download
one from my github repository and work with it.
So let me make this white.
And that's great.
So I believe that will do the job.
OK.
So I'm going to group this and sketch is a design program that is mainly used to design this kind of
applications like IRS applications or Android applications.
So let me go to this ruler sign and see the UI Image view width and height.
So it's two hundred sixty four to three hundredths OK.
So I can't go back here and make it exactly like two hundred sixty four and three hundreds.
So that would match.
And if you have something different in your own UI image you can always change the size with and height
according to these numbers again.
So I'm going to name this image select and I'm going to export this and I'm going to place it on my
desktop.
So I don't need this sketch file anymore.
I'm going to delete it.
I just need this PMG or JPEG file anyway so it's on my desktop and I'm going to bring it on my projects
and I will say okay then I can go to my UI Image view properties.
OK and then select the image that I have just imported.
So here you go.
As I said before if you don't want to do this on your own you can just use mine and download it from
the Internet or you can just use any image that you want.
You can do this with a button if you like you're just going to see that I'm just going to create a gesture
recognize her and then assign a function to it.
If you do that with a button that's OK too.
So let's create a new gesture organizer and assign it to my image of you.
First of all I have to make my Image view user interaction enabled so that people can click on tap on
it and I'm going to call this image tap.
Recognize.
K Because we have already used gesture recognize or name.
So this is going to be a UI tap gesture you cook.
So if you open parentheses it will ask you for a target and itself and the action will be actually a
selector.
So I'm doing this a little bit fast because we have done this so many times.
I'm going to come over here and create a new function and let's say objective c func.
You can say a select image or you can say anything you want.
OK.
And then in here I have to say select image.
And of course after this I have to add this to my Image view as a gesture recognize or so Image view
add gesture recognize the image tab recognize her.
So that's OK.
Whenever I tap on the Image view it will do whatever I write on the Select image.
So this will be recognized as we are going to write a lot of code in the we did load.
So I believe it's better to use comments like this in order to understand why we are later on and under
select image what we gonna do.
We're going to use a class called UI picker image picker image.
Okay.
And that's kind of a view controller that lets us reach the user's photo library.
So you have to define this as a variable however you're going to called as a UI image picker controller
as you can see this is a view controller actually and it manages the interface for taking pictures recalling
movies.
So if you want to get some images or movies out of the photo library the library of the user you need
to use these UI image picker controller.
OK.
And there actually some kind of setup that you need to use this.
First of all you need to set this as a delegate to your view controller.
So you have to say picker that delegate is self but this will give you an error.
So this is kind of the same thing that we do in the table we use OK in order to do that you have to
come over here and you have to say that this is actually a UI image picker controller delegate OK UI
image picker controller delegate.
And that's not enough by itself.
You can also you have to also say this is also a UI navigation controller delegate.
So this lets us go back and forth between the newly presented e picture controller and back.
So that's what we are going to do in order to use this picture controller on our app and then later
on we're going to do the setup for the picture.
For example since we have delegated it later on we can use the functions related to the speaker delegate
as well and we're going to set up what is going to be done after we select the picture itself and once
I write that you will understand it much better.
So far we're just writing some different codes than before and you may have trouble understanding again.
Don't worry.
For example I'm going to assign a source type to picker and if you hit that you will see this as either
a camera or a photo library or photos album itself.
So I'm going to go for a photo library because we cannot simulate the camera in a good way.
If we use simulator after Dad you can use your own phone iPhone in order to test the camera as VO But
it's no different than getting the image out of photo library.
So I'm going to go for a photo library and then for example you can just say picker that allows editing.
It means that if the user chooses an image they create.
They get to edit it OK.
They get to zoom it.
They get the copied and it's not mandatory to do that.
You can just set it to false as well but I'm just showing you as a general information and then I'm
going to say present this picture as we did in the alert messages right.
So this will present this picture and it will be animated and in the completion I don't want anything
to be done.
And that's it.
That's how we actually reach the photo library of the user so that we can go over here and choose any
picture that we want.
And that's not enough because we have to say what will happen after we chose this image as well.
And that's why we have these navigation delegates pick delegate we can actually call these functions
right now.
We have to call that function called did finish Pekingese.
OK.
So if you're I did finish and this one of them.
So let me say you did finish speaking.
Yeah.
This one if you double click on this function you will see that it will display something called did
finish picking media.
Yeah.
That's what we're looking for did finish peaking media with info.
So what does disk function give us so let me just close this down so that we can have a better look.
As you can see this is going to get called when we finish the peaking media and this will give us a
dictionary in which we will have a you eye image peak picker controller info and in return we will get
an object with a type.
So this will be our image the any type bill we will be our image we are going to cast this as a UI image.
OK.
And the info will be the information that we going to get from the image picker controller like an original
image or an edited image.
So let me show you what I want is to assign these chosen the image as in my image view image.
So later on I'm going to say info and this will be a dictionary.
If I open this parentheses I get to choose my key.
So if I give a key it will give me a value and the value will be any type.
So I'm going to cast this as an UI image later on.
But in order to do that I have to give a key and the key that I will be providing can be seen by hitting
dot in here.
So if you hit that you will see some of the options like edited image.
So we allowed the editing and if actually user edits this image we can get the edited one by choosing
this for example we if we're dealing with a life photo we can get it from here.
And the default one is actually the original image.
So even if we allow editing if we choose this original image even if the user edits this then we get
the original image anyway so it doesn't make sense to use both of these options.
But I'm going to use this as an example.
So if you want to use editor image done you can go for that and then I'm going to cast this as a UI
image because it's not a UI image.
Now it's any type OK as you can see it gives me a warning it gives me an error.
Now I'm going to cast is optional lead to UI image because there is something that can go wrong in this
process.
For example maybe the user won't select an image.
Maybe he will just cancel this.
So I don't do this OK I'm not going to force cast as I'm just going to optionally cast this as a UI
image and that's it.
That's what's going to get me the picture and show it on my image of you.
And then later on I have to dismiss this picture controller to go back to my original weave controller
so you can just say self doubt disappears.
It will dismiss the speaker controller and you again say true for animated and completion is nil.
So that's all I wanted to show you because I believe we're now ready to go ahead and test this.
So far but we have done is to create a select image function in which we display the UI image picture
controller and under the did finish picking media with info we have specified what will happen when
we choose it.
So if you click on this right now it will pop up the photo library of the user like this and you can
come over here and choose anything you want.
Like this flowers over here.
OK.
And you can edit this you can zoom in and crop if you want.
I'm not going to do that right now because that's cool.
So I'm going to go for these flowers I'm built say choose and here you go.
That's perfect.
That's what I have been looking for.
So I had my image right now.
I can just write name artist and year and I can just try to save this or my card data database.
But I just want to show you one last thing before we proceed to that.
So it's not mandatory on the new versions like I guess twelve thirteen and we are working on Iowa starting
right now.
But I believe you should know that before we had to give a reason to reach the library photo library
of the user and we need this kind of explanation then there is a privacy concern for the user.
Like reaching the location of the user or reaching the photo library of the user.
OK.
And if you open those files if you go to info that page list which is we have never worked before.
So this is kind of where you do the General Staff General settings of your app.
For example we can add whatever option that we want here by clicking on this plus button it will pop
up a list for you.
And in this list you're going to see a lot of information that a lot of options and we are looking for
prey we see.
OK.
If you scroll down a little bit you will see the privacy for example in here we have privacy explanation
for locations.
For example we're going to see this in the following section about right now.
Suppose that you want to use the location of the user if you click on those you can give a specific
reason to reach the location of the user.
So that X code can display a message to the user saying that this app wants to reach your location.
For example if you choose this photo library usage description then you can write some explanation here
like yeah I want to access your photos.
Okay to upload them to my core data or upload to the server.
I don't know how you have to come up with a good reason to write here.
And again this is not mandatory at this point but maybe the people would I guess nine or 10 will use
your app then this will be mandatory.
So I believe you should know how to do this.
So after choosing the privacy you can say to access photos and I.
I don't believe it's going to be displayed right now when I click this but if it was an older version
then when I click this it would show up in here as a message and people would have to approve this.
So I believe you can try to add this on your own and and then you create a message here to persuade
users to give you permission.
So far so good.
Now we have chosen our media.
We have our image.
Then we can learn how to save all of this information into a database.
That's what we're going to learn in the next lecture.